# W3C Solid Community Group: WebID Profile

* Date: 2022-11-29T16:00:00Z
* Call: <https://meet.jit.si/solid-profile>
* Chat: <https://gitter.im/solid/webid-profile>
* Repository: <https://github.com/solid/webid-profile>

## Present

* [Virginia Balseiro](https://virginiabalseiro.com/#me)
* Jeff Zucker
* Timea Turdean
* Tim Berners-Lee

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts

* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.

### Participation and Code of Conduct

* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.

### Scribes

* Virginia
* Timea

---

## Topics

### Update on prior ACTIONs

* VB: Initial list of use cases PR: <https://github.com/solid/webid-profile/pull/80>
* VB: Profile shape used in PB added to shapes folder. PR: <https://github.com/solid/webid-profile/pull/79>
* VB: Haven't had time to look at it.
* JZ: I will be stepping back from WebID PRofile for a while. Have put a lot of energy and time and the direction that we're going is not the same others want. I will be stepping back for December and rejoin maybe next year.
* VB: If you feel that's wat is best for you I can only support.
* TT: Sad about that but I will probably do the same, realistically December is full of holidays :)
* TBL: Did you find it was not great due to culture?
* JZ: Just wanna take a step back and see what people come up with.
* TBL: That points to different people going different ways - probably discussions I haven't been following.
* JZ: It's more about stepping back and not hampering the work. I need a break.
* VB: I also will have reduced time for different reasons. So it's going to be a challenge.
* TBL: TT, do you understand the sequence that the spec has taken re: ESS?
* TT: I understood what happened. It's okay that it went that way. We can learn and improve process for future. We have gotten feedback in different ways. We handled it the best we could. Only problem is that there are doubts in the team about the direction. Normal to take a step back and reassess. Can we recap on big topics and see if they are closed? Are there topics still open? What is happening with the team? We can decide to put a pin on it for december and think about the future.
* TBL: We had some negative input coming in. Distractions. We need to push back and say why it's useful to put stuff in the profile. But if we ignore some of that, we cna put a pin on the data about the person and say any auth etc is specified elsewhere.

### Update on where we are and what is still open (Timea)

* VB: we agreed we are focusing on the shape. I thought we had a good direction. The personal point is that I do not have a lot of availability. But I personally am happy of the point we reached, we decided on.
* VB: i pushed a chnage to the goals and it says we focus on the model. So that migth be helpful to focus on things.
* JZ: my perception is that when we originally started, my problem was that devs do not have a clear picture how to get ot a profile, get to teh type indexes and the seeAlsos and gather all info we have. We did not have a formalized process for that. We set out initially to focus on that. And later have things like what we would say about oneself or organisation. However, witg all that happened with ESS and other things it sems we compeltely abandoned how to help dev how to find and organize rhings. I think we definetely need a spec that talks about where stuff it but also about where to find what. And it seems we sort of abandoned it. We cannot controll what people do on their WebId and that is not very satisfactory.
* VB: I do not think we abandoned it but some parts are already specified elsewhere (how to update a resource, authn, access control). We did not abandon we decided to point to the places where those things hapen. i think we also still do a lot of discovery topics.
* TBL: The piece abotu how ESS logs on is not interesting here, it should just work. So when you write to ESS, the client code knows stuff and they allow you to log on and it will work much smoother than the SolidOS code. But then you can put stuff in your profile part (QR code) I was hoping that we get that defined. We got distracted by the WebID log on/authentication info.
* TT: We are a bit in the middle. I understand how we got to where we are, thanks VB for poiting out we agreed on shapes, we need to clarify what happened and how we get there. Does this really still reflect what we set out to do? If one team member is not clear, we need to get that clarity for the team and others. One deliverable: shape. Other deliverables: prose around it. What do I do with the shape. Why do I even have a shape. In the introduction it shows that we are not aligned as a team. It reflects where we are as an editors team.
* TBL: Where do I find what JZ wrote?
* JZ: <https://github.com/solid/webid-profile/pull/76>
* TT: Thanks JZ because you highlight the problem in the team. Which is we are not on the same page on what has happened and why. Goal only reflects half what we need to do.
* JZ: Re: agreement on shapes - I didn't particularly like it and that is still my opinion. You all will probably come up with great stuff, but to me, the idea of the shape devoid of how you get the shape wasn't what I thought we were doing in this specification. I thought the purpose was formalizing the process of opening, finding things, compiling. Having a shape doesn't benefit that process.
* TBL: That's the same thing. Shape is a documentation. Here's the profile, follow this links. The formal way to do it is the shape. Compact- machine-readable way ofsaying it.
* JZ: Except we don't say things like if I want private things, it can go in see Alsos, etc.
* TBL: this is a shape of stuff that goes in the public profile. other stuff goes in pref, pref is private. This is stuff that if you put them in the shape this is ...
* VB: I wanted to mentione that in the shape itself, and we can elaborate with more text, we will have -> this is what seeAlso is for, this is what that is used for. I do not think that focusing on dat amodel on shape is different and we should include it in the shape as well.
* JZ: I cannot quite envision it so I want to see the direction we take.
* TBL: you remember XML schemas to say this is the data you can put in documents. It is just liek that. Using a shape it means people will not scrath their heads but they will know exactly what we mean in detail.
* JZ: I do not quite see how this relates to helping devs discover things.
* TBL: it coudl help them to generate a form - it is based on shapes.
* JZ: it will be a very complex form because it will ask is this proiate or not.
* TBL: what we do now is about what you want to have public. It is not about if you want or not to have something public, it is about what is possibly public.
* JZ: so it does not relate to discovery and findig things in a profile.
* TBL: it is a 1st step. type indexes is the 3-4th step. It is useful to have basic things liek name and languages.
* JZ: Will spec not say anything about this might be not in the same document?
* TBL: We can say in the case of ESS it's "TBD". In a way we need to give it momentum and this is just the profile... we have one doc that describes this profile document (shape and text aaround it) and then we can write stuff about preferences file and its own spec, then there we can put another type index... but the public type index allows us immediately to share ???
* VB: in case of ESS we discussed it to death. It is best to kind of go: this is teh data model you can expect and ppl will come to an ESS profile and will probably get less info for what they want and it is not easy to add info. That is an implementation detail. As much as it migth be useful like "this is the rpeidicate you can follow to find x" this is the profile and this is how you can use it. We leave the rest to ESS for teh future to when we can find a way to communicate it.
* TBL: we can make it use with CSS and ESS and we can accept income pull requests from teh ESS team.
* VB: exactly
* TBL: all the info in teh profile should be interoperable. And if ESS says you should not have any data - we can say No that is your WebID and ours is so. And id they do not match they will clash.
* TT: One of the topics was: do we have two separate documents linked with isPrimaryTopicOf
* VB: we meantioned lets focus on profile of NSS CSS and we take feedback form ESS later, or reeveluate if needed. We spent so much time that it kind of it was a huge time consuming topic. Focus on what is in CSS and NSS and sort that out when we have somthign in place.
* TBL: we identify our best bet of what a profile is, in a shape and we have a typeIndex shape. Do we have a preference doc yet?
* VB: let me try find the issue for it. We don't currently have an issue.

> ACTION: VB to create issue for preferences file

* TBL: we had a lot of feedback from people who use it differently but we do want to stick to our mission that the spec should be finished. We need to focus. We need this sort of state that is is good enough. What are we missing? Profile doc is ok, not perfect but ok. It will come out and create less confusion.
* TT: I thought we were going to do both cases. Profile in one doc or two. But we're going with one.
* TBL: Virginia what do you feel?
* VB: for now I woudl eb happy with us saying this shape of the profile could include foaf:primaryTopicOf and you can follow.. .juat make it part of the shape
* TT: agrees
* JZ: disagrees. In the first place, foaf:primaryTopicOf - why would we support that? If we take the possition that Solid Profile is on a Solid Server protocol. The other option is we have a multiple document situation - so what would be the seeAlso file shape look like? How will we describe that? How is that explained in a shape?
* VB: we do not to go into describing them because it could eb anything. As you can have any predicate you want we could mention the foaf:primaryTopicOf and this could be pointing to a document that can contain..
* TBL: in a non-normative section
* VB: yes
* TBL: seeAlso i am not sure because we do not use it in SolidOS. But I know wthat Ruben V. his profile tends to be huge because of so many publications. At some point I also had in my profile links to punlication but it was not under seeAlso. One can have specific links to go to a friend's file.. That maybe be more efficient to have specific links. If there are some security points for exampel that is why it would make sense. We can redesign it but we haven't. When we have ot we can put it in one of the next versions. We need to keep up the momentum we have now!
* JZ: Teh part I am concerned with: seeAlso is the only mechanism to target specific audiences. Otherwise we only have public info.
* TBL: teh community part helps here.  
* JZ: if I want to publsih smth only one community can see or only my boss can see but coworkers not - I need a seeAlso
* TBL: no. it can be a Typeindex of the community. You can bookmark thinkgs that only you can see... or if you have write permissinos ou can bookmark it at the community level.
* JZ: I see. I think the community predicate is great but I still think there is leaving up to anyone to do whatever they want with teh seealso. What we are saying: look for profile look for stuff and if you find it great if no good luck. It is no help.
* TBL: with typeIndex we have what people can find, public and private. That is already quite powerful. I am worried about seeAlso because itis too generic.
* JZ: that makes sense. your idea is that we have special predicates: thisis where oyu keep al your friends? That is a great idea. I am hearing this things that say that our purpose has chnaged: discovery process and seeAlso
* TBL: you find the profile then the preferences and the type indexes... that is the discovery
* TT: We can't go for everything we set out to do. Derailed us, got too big. We're restraining out area of focus on CSS and NSS because it would take a lot of discussions and time to broaden the scope. Doesn't mean we don't wanna achieve it, but maybe for future versions. This is a building step we need to get out of the way before we can grow.
* TBL: A lot of benefit in putting out stuff. Most efficient way of focusing. Documenting things that work and have been tested. New things will get feedback and confusion. There will also be new functionality they want, people will forget things... and come up with things we can put. It is valuable to focus/get momentum.
* TT: I want JZ's reply to my conclusion.
* JZ: I think that's essentially where we are. I'm in favor of getting something out quickly and moving on to the next thing. I don't want to put blocks. Understand the reasoning behind not going into certain things, so no objections. Don't completely understand, but I don't object.
* TT: I also don't completely understand. I was a lot of times not comfortable deciding putting things into the spec. So this makes sense, to take a step back. Divide and conquer. Doesn't mean we give up. Having no decision is worse than bad decision. While we still think, people don't have a spec, so we haven't improved anyone's life for a year. It is important to me that JZ understands why we needed to step back a bit.
* TBL: Sorry that I have been missing these meetings due to traveling. I have to catch up and try to help to figure out how to protect us from incoming distractions/confusions, get back on track.
* TT: I feel okay with the update. Still a lot of work to do. What is next?
* VB: I PRed a ShEx shape for a person - it will get us started - it is not perfect but any feedback is great! I need to rewrite as SHACL.
* JZ: what we want to have SHACL or ShEx? SHACL!
* TBL: Inrupt uses ShEx. I am tempted to have a validate in SolidOS.
* VB: it is for a person - it shoudl be a shape about the profile document. Migth be incorrect but the commens might be helpful.
* TT: what do we need? Profile, preferences and typeIndex
* VB: we can start with the person.
* TBL: we do not have a draft for preferences yet.
* JZ: why would there be a difference in shape between private and public typeIndex?
* TBL: good question.

> ACTION: TT to focus on shape for Type Index, VB to focus on profile shape.

* VB: I had alredy an action item to create issue about the preferene file.
* TBL: what goes where shoudl be described by same doc?
* JZ: sort of - the main issue is why you would put info in one or the other.
* TT: Happy with the state of things. Nothing to add. Focus on shapes, PR, take from there.

### foaf:primaryTopicOf

URL: <https://github.com/solid/webid-profile/issues/81>

* foaf:primaryTopicOf is actually foaf:isPrimaryTopicOf (the inverse of foaf:primaryTopic)
* VB: We can include in non-normative section as discussed above.
