# W3C Solid Community Group: WebID Profile

* Date: 2022-11-08T16:00:00Z
* Call: <https://meet.jit.si/solid-profile>
* Chat: <https://gitter.im/solid/webid-profile>
* Repository: <https://github.com/solid/webid-profile>

## Present

* [Virginia Balseiro](https://virginiabalseiro.com/#me)
* [Timea Turdean](https://timea.solidcommunity.net/profile/card#me)
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)
* Tim Berners-Lee
* Jeff Zucker

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts

* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.

### Participation and Code of Conduct

* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.

### Scribes

* Timea

---

## Topics

### Updates on prior ACTIONs

VB: Update on Use Cases: almost finished with a draft, wondering about some details - will discuss in topic below.
VB: Haven't made much progress on trusted apps but I don't have a lot left to do, will try to have draft and ask outstanding questions next week.
JZ: submitted my intro draft -> it is too long for now. I like the part of structuring around the function of profile. Lets discuss.

### Conformance of Solid WebID Profile Documents on non-Solid storage

VB: informal agreement last week was to differentiate between Solid profiles (as in a Solid resource) and not Solid profiles (not covered by this spec, refer to WebID 1.0 and Solid-OIDC).
VB: I think a better solution would be to focus on the data model and leave authn/updating resources to the corresponding specs (authn covered by solid-oidc, updating resources - including WebID - covered by Solid protocol, and so on). This would address: <https://github.com/solid/webid-profile/issues/63>
VB: We could have a (very short) section for Updating a WebID Profile which states that if a Solid resource it follows the protocol.
JZ: No spec covers writing a profile, so this will be it. We owe it to community to get clarity on what to do.
VB: yes I agree but how does updating a WebID profile aside from the data model influence the Solid resource?
JZ: the difference would come when they try to write to... all right
TBL: We don't need to describe how to update. Most important thing is shape.
TT: We tried different versions, we discussed a lot. I like the idea of data shapes. For not just this specs but it could be even example for other specs in the future to go about it like this. Doesn't mean it needs to be extensive and complete which is a good thing, so people can add. Getting started somehow.
TBL: Thanks you for asking about the contacts shape, Virginia. We should give that online and have a button in the contacts to validate address book. Would represent a living spec. Shapes allow us to run validations on the data. You just want to explain why it is on that date and maybe it will not even need a version at all.
JZ: Like the idea of shapes. I do not know enough about them. Hoe does it work in terms of the spec?
TBL: Shapes are open. You just have to put useful information about stuff people put in their protocol.. it does not have to be complete. It is quite reasonable for the OIDC people to make a separate spec - ask what they need exactly for authentication and point to that.
JZ: that makes sense to me. What about - are we making a shape for documents for the profile at all? Where does the storage go? Is it a shape for the entire graph or for individual documents?
TBL: by default it is on a document. Having the language in profile
VB: how we describe ot is fine - storage (short definition)
JZ: wat shapes are we describing, how does thatrelate to the documents we are describing?
VB: the shape of the profile
JZ: of seeAlso file or preferenceFile or a shape for whole?
SC: you are describing the RDF graph, if it is in the same document or in another, it is separate them in documents for some reasons. And you can indicate that - when you have access control as a consideration you would want to. But the data model is for  document - you do not have to specify a uri template, or storage. But gfor the data model you do not describe the value only how data is connected
TBL: we should have one shape for basic profile - one for preference file... before worrying about the entire. If later we have extended profile that will have to get its own later. We should concentarte on stuff we have in SolidOs because we know it works.
VB: FYI <https://github.com/inrupt/pod-browser/blob/main/shapes/profile/person.shex> -> shape worked for PodBrowser.
SC: I want to know if the preference file - there is no connection between the prefFile document between anythign described. Example (even if not correct): in profile doc we have a primaryTopic linking to webID but there is no connections between pref file doc with some of the parts in it - how do you wire the webID description to a prefFile? you do not have to describe the conenction
TBL: you do. there is link from profile to a prefFile.
SC: i see config file but nothing else.
JZ: preferencesFile should be in every profile.
SC: we had several meetings how to.. ???
TBL: I am worried we go into a rabbit hole. Lets focus on the profile. The link to the prefFile is very well defined.
SC: I know. But what JZ was saying - if that is pointing to a document - do we have a shape for that doc as well?
TBL: yes. we do it later.
JZ: anyting can go in a webID doc and pref file. We want to focus on predicates that let you describe a profile.
VB: and also predicates used by apps today.But ppl can have more things. How do you take most advantage of your profile?
TBL: I think you are right Jeff that we need to priotitize links to things. But we also need to prioritize having your name and picture, it is cool information, languages you speak -> for localization. Things like pronouns. We have in the profile at the moment. Any stuff we have code for in SolidOS should fall into this: communities for example. Type indexes become mor epowerful with them. Emergency contacts also.
JZ: we prety well decided we will have a predicates for people in one doc and that the current document will describe how apps will find things rather than what it will find.
TBL: pointers to other files but what is finds in profile and including links to other files.

### Scope and conformance

VB: Proposed by SC.
VB: See also: my notes on first topic about focusing on Data Model and not on authn/write.
SC: Define classes of products that will implement the specification. Data model / producer or consumer of content, e.g., focus on what the Solid WebID Profile looks like irrespective to where it is found.
VB: what do we want the outcomes to be here?
SC: we approached how to approach the conformance and the spec. (scope, cardinality, relations...) Recently in the Solid Protocol I made some PR that it really needs to be cristal clear - what will be tested? in the tests of who is conforming? I know we are not but are we testing applications in the spec?
TBL: yes, but we need to focus getting down the shapes. If we decide the format and the relationship between the tests and the spec... lets focus on the spec.
SC: if the spec is about the data model - say that up front. Have a conformance sections - what needs ot be implemented. You can have a producer or consumer of profile. But the shape will be eventually conforming. If producer is creating it well and if consumer is consuming it well.
TBL: we will do just a little bit.
JZ: I think it is possible to create a shape that validate something like - this is a valid profile. But the profile cannot work under certain conditions and that is what we should describing.
VB: what does 'work' mean - written to, read...
JZ: there are different levels of work
VB: it can be used to identify yourself - very bare bone. It becomes more useful the more stuff you put into it. you really need to define 'work' meaning.
TBL: like the LinkedIN profile - it cannot work full functionality you only get when it is complete. It migth encourage ppl - by the way: you have not mentioned what languages you speak. you have bowser on French and Eng. Shall we put that in your profile? Bots can be helped to talked to you because of it. ON LinkedIn people are motivated because they want a job so havinng conformance tests is not usefull for one.
JZ: SC what do you ee as testing?
SC: there are lots of specs with data model, I do not understand why this spec is any different. Gave example about WAC, they talk about data model.
TBL: if you have a test for a consent - that is important, you gotta define what is right. The system works - the app gets access to data. You can have a ACL file but no info at all. If you have authorization you can test the data type. A user creating a ACL file - we do not have that.
SC: specs have a definition of conformance - what is interoperability for example. Content, consumer content are products that will implement the spec.
TBL: this is like about a homepage. you do not have a spec on what to put on the homepage.
VB: do you mean what are the requirements of this doc or...?
TBL: SC is talking about requirements about profile - a test that checks if you have x and y but we cannot require them.
SC: shares screen. This is the Variability in Specs and talk about how to write specs - how to structure, about products that implement, grouping in modules or levels. I am just saying that this particular spec, we are taling a class of products. You are touching on apps and consumers maybe or producers.. Does not matter if it is one or multiple but 'my spec is only describing the data model as the product that will be in there', is it a guideline, an annotation. If you put on these googles you can have a scope.
TBL: if when we try to write a spec, if you make us look at othe stuff it will take us longer to write the spec. We should focus on the shape and the semantics. If you put this it will have this consequence... langauges example. But we ar enot gonna fuss about the details. We do not have time to discuss the agents involved. If we talk about personas it will side track us. We need to roll out the contacs spec, we need to roll out when we have working code. Role out shapes and forms so that people understand them. We can just leverage that. We do not have to consider the agents. It is good in extra time but not now.
VB: I agree. There is a ton of stuff that is not an issue. We relly need to get into writing: updating a profile -> do this. If it is your own WebID do this... I agree.
TT: I agree too.
VB: I see the value in what you say, some of it will be usefull for use cases. Please send me a link to it.
SC: i want to point to how to scope the spec - with examples to other specs - discovery, protocol, data model. Just narrow it down. This is a topic ongoing.
VB: we are all in agreement that we want to focus on the data model.
JZ: I am going to wait to see how it looks - will it have value for developer
VB: what would be a value for you?
JZ: we want to establish the curent system used in SolidOS - preference file and seeAlso file and aranging things with type indexes to specify for devs to know how to do it.
VB: it is not out of scope, we are jusz going to describe like we already have - what you could use here and there... I do not mean to cut it out.
TBL: I expect this group to do a shape for the pref file, typeIndex and profile. Maybe it is faster to do the pref file.
TT: A bit about what everyone said: initially when you (SC) showed the example it made me frustrataed that you didn't say from the start.
VB: He did!
TT: Okay. My view is this: it is morphing into Sarven saying what is the product at the end that will be tested. I think it's going to be the shapes or the documents tied together with this ??? about the use cases. We can do a shape on a prefFile: minimum req. predicates. We need to go into if you want to do x or y you need this predicate. Examples, use cases. Am I getting it?
VB: in some way, every time we describe a predicate we get at some of the use cases. We could elaborate on use cases in a separate use case. But we do not need to.We can have a separate doc with use case and in some cases we have to elaborate more - explanations in some cases likefor storage. Wehre can we rely on shape and its defs, where we need more explanation.
JZ: I am in favor of separating use cases but my concern is what we say in the shapes and that we will need some rules in additiona to shapes. Try to get the shape and see what we need after that.
VB: on some things we will have to fill with explanations but lets start with the shapes.
JZ: we will need to reevaluate the details.
TBL: lets prioritize the data model. If we capture a discussion in the group or a QA to capture what ppl need.

* General Agreement on this was reached.
* ACTION: VB to PR shape for discussion

### Use cases and best practices documents

VB: Best practices: I created this <https://hackmd.io/MgUZ7OG2Rz2BqBdvq6eZJg># to track some of the things that might be moved to Best practices document and/or considerations section.
VB: 1 - IMO Use cases should be its own document (similar to <https://solid.github.io/authorization-panel/authorization-ucr/>)
VB: 2 - Where does a Best Practices document belong? As in, is it a Work Item under TR/? (I assume UC is).
SC: BP can be a work item like the others and listed at TR/ and potentially published e.g., at TR/webid-profile-bp
SC: Just want to make sure that there is commitment to publish UCR and BP. (Same question as commitment to do editorial work on type-indexes) It is a lot of work in addition to the webid-profile spec and type-indexes, and we may be assigning more work than necessary at this time with respect to "publishing". We can continue to collect notes in the repo to keep track while the work on main specs progress. I don't mean to be a barrier..
VB: I am already working on use cases so I can continue this work, I can commit to that. Best Practices is a bit different IMO. I think once we add Considerations, a lot of Best Practices won't be necessary to split out, as they can go in Considerations. So to summarize: yes I can commit to UCR, BP can wait until we know exactly what would need to go in there.
VB: I think it will be its own document. I can commit on the Use Cases. Best practices we should hold off for now. Some migth be considerations or use cases.
What do you think?
TBL: looking t misunderstandings before - we were working on SolidOS assuming ppl have profile but Aaron or Davi were worried about wistle blowers. We need to have a use case for a person with absolute minimum.
VB: for somoen who just wants to authenticate and that is all.
JZ: I like the idea of separating use cases doc. And what people can do examples.
SC: It is not like the WebID spec is void of why smth would be used. We will write the purpose. Circumstances where profile is used - is kind of language we need to add -> required by data model. About the separate docs - if is it not gettgin in the way ok. Strugglinling to have 2 docs and working on 2 might be difficult.
VB: in this particular instance it makes kind of sense.
JZ: I would not be in fav to go further along before we do the shapes. We can decide what goes where later.
ACTION: VB will do a PR about this.

### Respository organization, URL, webid-profile shortname

VB: Should that be solid-webid-profile?
VB: is a webid profile only a solid profile when it's a solid resource?
TBL: should a solid profile be on a solid server? no but it helps. Ppl in this call are ppl who will likely benefit from checking it into git but most people just need to adjust the profile. If we say: typicaly it will be on a server. We should have it.
VB: I agree.
JZ: what this leaves for the uses cases it is to cover that profiles not on Solid servers ..
VB: this is what I meant with 'work': they can be read... maybe not written to but if you have a way to do (proprietary software/IDE) it then it is ok.
TBL: a use case I can imagine when you buidla Facebook mirror. What would it mean if it would be profile.solid.com and when ppl log in with facebook id it give them a pod that extarcts data from facebook API and mapping it. It would become a read only profile.
SC & TT: no thoughs on it.
VB: should we move index.html to ED/? (I think yes, PR: <https://github.com/solid/webid-profile/pull/77>)
VB: then we would be at <https://solid.github.io/ED/webid-profile/> and set up a redirect at <https://solidproject.org/ED/webid-profile> (webid-profile short name subject to change, let's define this before PRing the redirect)
VB: it is somethign to think about to decide at some point.
VB: not need it yet.

### Structure of intro

-> postpone, first we can see feedback form notes.
VB: I can commit to posting my feedback and then we can prio discussing it next time.
JZ: there is a PR on notes to make it easier.
