# W3C Solid Community Group: WebID Profile

* Date: 2022-03-29T16:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-profile
* Chat: https://gitter.im/solid/profile-spec
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/webid-profile

## Present

* Virginia Balseiro (VB)
* Jeff Zucker (JZ)
* Timea Turdean (TT)
* Sarven Capadisli (SC)
* Tim Berners-Lee (TBL)

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts

* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.

### Participation and Code of Conduct

* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.

### Scribes

* Sarven

### Introductions

* name: text

---

## Topics

### ESS and isPrimaryTopicOf

* VB: We started to discuss this because JZ asked how much work would it be for ESS to change this. It is becoming somewhat complex for devs to look at different places. One of them was for isPrimaryTopicOf. I've asked the ESS Team. We proposed seeAlso and they said it is catch all. It is not precise but isPrimaryTopicOf is. However, they said that they're open to changing and it wouldn't be too much work. Essentially it is a discussion to have - whether we want them to change it or use what we want.

* JZ: My thinking is that it is complex to explain because it has to be on ESS and has to be 'this way'. True that seeAlso is not precise or that it is general. Same goes for isPrimaryTopicOf. It is also a document that can contain anything. For me it is an appropriate usage. What would allow is to go from WebID document to other documents. I'm in favour of seeAlso. That also makes it possible to have private file or it could go to public file or a mixed file, which I think it is possible.

* TT: I need to check WebID scheme we had initially. I might've misunderstood what you said.

* VB: You also had a diagram with and without isPrimaryTopicOf.

* JZ: If we use the seeAlso: https://files.gitter.im/61ba1d746da03739848c8eb2/kyCF/privacy.png
* JZ: Initial diagram: https://github.com/solid/webid-profile/blob/main/notes/profile-infrastructure.png

* VB: The spec will be aimed at developers. And if we have more predicates it maybe shows that devs can chose their owns in the future instead of reusing what is there...

* JZ: Problem will be interoperability. How will apps know where to look for that predicate. We're concerned with what's in the profile.. we're goin gto call it foaf:name or vcard:name.. and the bigger concern is finding it in the first place.

* JZ: I don't think we need the isPrimaryTopicOf to support that.

* TT: Yes, there are also people that have an issue on the ontology level re FOAF.

* VB: Essentially our question is to ask if ESS can change that.

* JZ: We writ ethe spec without the isPrimaryTopicOf and have a place for feedback/PR.

* JZ: I think in terms of explaining it, if we do end up using isPrimaryTopicOf, we might explain it in a way it works with and without the property. So, if they do object, it shouldn't be hard to put that back in.

* TT: I expect feedback for multiple parts of the draft. Brace yourselves.

* JZ: Are we okay with seeAlso?

* TBL: In the spec you can put comments to point to as a feature at risk. If people expect something else, it may save a loop.

* JZ: Good idea.


### Any conclusion of follow up on interop panel and trusted apps
* URL: https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/issues/247#issuecomment-1053907418

* TT: You were talking with elf for parallel approaches co-existing. Did you join their meeting, is it still open? What's your take on it?

* JZ: I did join the meeting. What I was proposing was that their authz-agent write/read from the type index, and apps operating in their system can also work in our system. They basically didn't like the idea of putting things in the type index, having pointers... They have a data registry that points to shapes - rather than type index - and that could include containers etc. My thought is why don't we put a ??? in the type index. So, any app operating in our system can go to the data registry and go there. Their objection is that the type index can be readable by anybody. howeve,r there is nothing I can determine that prevents the app ??? so putting a link to the type index doesn't make anything less secure. That was my argument but they didn't like it too much. I'm willing to drop it because if they're not interested in it then I'm not sure if we can force it. I am concerned about our apps in our system and in their system and whether they'll be interoperable. I think they basically see it as they'll support their apps and not apps.

* TT: It seems very distinct at the moment.

* TBL: If you have two library.. one to find things in type index and another with shapes or concept of data, the APIs will be different. It is possible that there could be an overlap. Simple apps could use either. Sometimes you get your email with IMAP and POP. POP is much simpler than IMAP but POP is still useful. It is not unreasonable to have both stacks for discovery because they may be designed for different cases.

* TT: That might not be a bad thing. Worse would be if there is a contradiction or overlap, but could co-exist, and people can choose or maybe it'll be use case base. I guess the ecosystem could decide later.

* JZ: I think there should be some interoperability between two systems but I don't think it is somsehting we can do. So there can be a separate path for data registry. ??? It is simply saying it is an instance of data registry so it doesn't require a modification about what we say about type index. Nothing we can do at this point.

* TT: I agree we don't have to change type index but decide what we say in our spec. My question is to write about both of them but not to high detail, but just a link. It is not even a choice.. we awant to make people aware of that option.

* TBL: You could find simple things in a type index than a data registry, and with data registry for more complicated.

* JF: addint the data registry ling in Type Index -> that means our apps can use the data registry but not the authorization

* TBL: when you read the type index, you know what there is to know. If you're data registry aware you know where to look. What they're trying to do is if I gvive you access to my space but not to my medical data for the app.. that's more complicated but separately/orthogonal to finding it.

* JZ: To find the existence of it. If an app is completely authorized in their system and to completely find that is in their system ??? using an authorization-agent. it is up to them if they want to put something in the type index. It doesn't require us to change the type index.

* TT: Depends on how it'll be develop. A developer might come and update the type index and it will show that it is needed in the ecosystem. It is not our decision to make righ now.

* TBL: Their data discovery thing ??? Our SolidOS has access to everything and that migth be a security risk for them. What I'm excited with SolidOS and type indexes is we have community to bookmark something in the project as wlel. If I'm a member of a project I can see it under the project. I think it is powerful, so we might find discovery with shape thing a nice thing. Groups like this can share stuff effectively.

* JZ: We mention an alternate way of doing it but link to their spec but don't say anything further about it.


### Open TODOs & new timeplan

* TT: What is still open/todo from now on?

* JZ: We need to write up the trustedApps but i dont' think there is a lot of ambiguity there - covered last week. I'm almost ready to put out my draft combining everything we've done. Hopefully for next week and see what's missing. We need terminology/bibliography.. So why don't I put the draft and look at that next week. See what's missing and begin working on it.

* TT: It makes sense but wasn't expecting you do all of it.

* JZ: I meant to put it out and we revise it.

* TT: on the point of trustedApps, we just have to ??? do we have missing information? ???

* TT: I think we are technically ahead..

* TBL: I was talking to TT about intimacy gradient? What I do with DesignIssues. I might not finish it for years.. I'll drop it into Gitter.

* TBL: The profile is the most public thing. The idea of the intimacy gradient https://www.w3.org/DesignIssues/Gradient.html is that we make profile is something oyu're proud of and the preference is quiet and friendly. OTher things like friends or work groups is you need a different attitude - protective or ??? You don't go through the master bedroom.

* TBL: Special link -Solid community that I am a member of. The discovery for ??? but I haven't got that code ready yet for controls re public/private.