# W3C Solid Community Group: WebID Profile

* Date: 2022-10-18T16:00:00Z
* Call: <https://meet.jit.si/solid-profile>
* Chat: <https://gitter.im/solid/webid-profile>
* Repository: <https://github.com/solid/webid-profile>

## Present

* [Virginia Balseiro](https://virginiabalseiro.com/#me)
* Jeff Zucker
* Timea Turdean
* Tim Berners-Lee

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts

* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.

### Participation and Code of Conduct

* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.

### Scribes

* Virginia
* Timea

### Introductions

* name: text

---

## Topics

### Prior ACTIONs

* VB: document use cases for Solid Profile (incl. inbox, storage): <https://github.com/solid/webid-profile/issues/55> and preferences file: <https://github.com/solid/webid-profile/issues/5> - in progress.

* VB: trustedApp - in progress.

* JZ: write an introduction covering the above in a general way, refer to use cases for specific points. Provide examples for different cases such as private/public profile.

* JZ: Working on it. Thinking about the philosophical question of identity, which will give way to the use cases. Key point is related to [Sarven's latest issue](https://github.com/solid/webid-profile/issues/58) - profile is not identity but a persona, multiple ways to present oneself.

* VB: create issue to add link to TI: <https://github.com/solid/webid-profile/issues/57>

* VB: reach out to implementors and ask for feedback/issues/arguments.

* VB: ESS needs to align internally and we should move on without, until they will have an alignment. As soon as they have something they will let us know.
* VB: I will call with Emmet tomorrow so hopefuly next time we have feedback.

* JZ: We need to discuss Preferences file - private and public profile.

* VB: I have an action item to write down the use cases for preferences file, so I will make sure to take this into consideration while writing those.

### Type Indexes Update

* TT: I met with Ruben T. because I thought he might be interested in being an editor for TI. He didn't decline, but doesn't have time until November. I will ping him and check his interest.
* TBL: How much more work is needed?
* TT: Not very much. Introduction and examples.
* TBL: We need to add communities. Currently done by hand.
* TT: That's a SolidOS topic. But we can use that code as example.
