# W3C Solid Community Group: WebID Profile

* Date: 2022-12-06T16:00:00Z
* Call: <https://meet.jit.si/solid-profile>
* Chat: <https://gitter.im/solid/webid-profile>
* Repository: <https://github.com/solid/webid-profile>

## Present

* [Virginia Balseiro](https://virginiabalseiro.com/#me)
* Arne Hassel
* Timea Turdean
* [Matthias Evering(ewingson)](https://solidweb.me/testpro/)
* Wouter Termont
* TBL
* [Ted Thibodeau](https://github.com/TallTed/) (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com)
* Yasmin
* Brian Dowtin

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts

* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.

### Participation and Code of Conduct

* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.

### Scribes

* Virginia
* Timea

---

## Introductions

* Yasmin: currently Master's student at ???  - will cotinue my Phd here. First meeting.
* Brian: I am Brian Dowtin - a PHD Candidate at
NCAT.edu
* Arne: Wrok in Norway, some of you know me from Inrupt. Starting at ??? working with Semantic Web. I think I can help reviewing shapes in this spec. Looking forward.
* Matthias: new to the panel. Maintainer of solidweb.org and solidweb.me

## Topics

### Update on prior ACTIONs

* VB: Working on profile shape but no updates yet.
* TT: No updates. Still assigned to Type Indexes shape.
* TT: Introduction action postponed.
* VB: Yes. We can revisit when shapes are done.  

### Solid Application Interoperability: Agent-Specific Discovery

URL: <https://woutermont.github.io/solid/agent-specific-discovery.html>

* VB: Proposed by WT
* VB: WT, could you please give us an overview, how this fits into our work, and how you'd prefer to receive feedback/comments?
* WT: *shares screen*
* WT: This document was crated as a proposal to extract some core features of the quite large and cumbersome interop specification. Before going into it: I had a meeting with interop panel about this, and they accepted the spec. The idea is to move this into the interop repo and start taking the relevant parts out of interop specs that are covered by this and use references to this document.
* WT: Introduction states the need for a way to let agents or clients access docs that are specifically meant for them. To do that in a performant way, rather than accessing identity doc and checking all documents pointed from there, only to discover they can access/bot access some, that's the core point.
* WT: Agent specific resources - resources that are relevant for an agent bout an entity. First thin proposed is to have a resource discovery hub, which is a microservice if you will, that can be discovered for every entity that has one. At the RDH, the agent can ask for a pointer to whatever agent speific resource...
* TBL: discovery hub is a thing controlled by the agent, right?
* WT: No. By the entity.
* TBL: the user?
* WT: The entity the agent wants to interact with. My WebID could have a RDH linked to it...
* TBL: for the user?
* WT: Yes. But one user can interact with another user...
* TBL: This is for agents that are like bots / automated.
* WT: Can be the case for social agents. Example: I can via an app access your RDH and find out which files are shared with me.
* AH: Qustion about contxt: how does this relate to type indexes? Alternative?
* WT: Good question. Will come back to it at the end, but it is not an alternative to type indexes, is an alternative to how to get from WebID doc to Type index. For example, now I have my WebID doc with 2 seeAlso, one has a type index that is public, another accessible to some of my friends...
* TBL: The design at the moment is we have two TI: public and private (in prefs doc). If you're looking for public one you can find that immediately. For private you need to be a trusted app.
* WT: Let me rephrase: you have pref file and want to give two agents access to different type indexes. how do you do that?
* TBL: one way is with a community that you share stufff with. The RDH needs to be running in. a pod, seems much more complex. RDH is an extension to Solid protocol
* WT: Yes, but an extension that is needed according to interop spec panel. This is a very simple extension, which is why I want it separate from the spec. You can put a triple that points to a RDH, send a request, and response is where you need to look.
* TBL: the goal with TI is to organize by class: address book, etc. and I can choose which apps I trust and the point about interoperability is that any app can access the same data, whereas you're saying that data can be access by one app. Missing interoperability with other apps.
* WT: Not necessarily different data. Given a way to structure or categoriza data (TI, data registrations, etc) you can have one collection of those, but the idea is that different agents will have different access to those. Some agents will have access to my address books and some won;'t. Same pattern for other things.
* TBL: I can put this in the ACR, I can decide which agents have acces to what.
* WT: Exactly but that is not scalable. If you're faced with thousand of different data types...
* TBL: types or agents?
* WT: types.
* TBL: we have about a hundred that we're looking at. If you want access to medical records you know what you;'re finding. You don't need to have ???
* WT: I disagree that you only need ??? because you want to regulate access on low level: example project with tasks, you need task as a type. Even if you have high level type only, there are bound to be thousands of those long term. Maybe not for one person but there will be profiles and pods with thousands of types, and the burden on the client is much larger performance-wise.
* TBL: I have a type which is specific, blood pressure reading. You think that when agent wants to access this, it will go through this and say "I am agent X, and I want to find blood pressure data" and agent will ping the hub and return those.
* WT: Yes. You say to hub what agent you are, and you get an overview of what you can access and so on instad of lookign it up.
* VB: Need to interrupt - let's hold question until WT finishes.
* WT: Document lists some considerations about data hub but most important is it should be composable with other services. WebID provider should be able to provide a RDH on top of identity document. For efficiency, if you do that as identified client you immediately get your agent specific resources back. You don't need extra request to do so. Taht is one of the most important aspects.
* WT: Comformance model: we have two important steps. Discovery of hub itself, which is simple: GET request to WebID, you get either a Link header pointing to RDH,  but as fallback we include pointer to the hub in the returned doc as well.
* WT: additional parapgraph that we should point to only one agent specific resource and go from there.
* WT: Last part: agent registration states the need and an example of what to do if there's no agent specific resource for a client to discover. We have a registration request, POST it to a target ??? which exposes agent specific resource for that client after creating.
* WT: Sequence diagram summarizes everything.
* AH: How does this relate to WebID Profile? Are you asking that we make sure is interoperabioble and we don't redundant work?
* WT: Yes. Proposing this at interop panel, to have this be a compatibility layer with how things are done at the moment which are described in your spec. The idea is that we'd introduce a URL that we had in the past that stands for a public agent, have a public doc be returned at this resource hub for every agent that is not authenticated. Document that it points can be accessible in the same ways as seeAlso and pref file.
* AH: Sounds reasonable.
* WT: If you have issues/questions, address them in the interop issues.
* TBL: I worry that it introduces a new protocol with HTTP headers... not solid.. extension to Solid, what is different about this? Will people using this have data that is not normal in a pod and cannot be accessed using the system? If the public has access to some things on a WAC system you can find that by filtering/indexing the ppod. For an arbitrary agent, how does the hub know about WAC and ACP?
* WT: Slight misconception: the hub will not return everything an agent has accesss to. It just a way to make everything an agent has access to discoverable by the agenmt. Just as seeAlso and pref file. You would get from the hub a pointer to a pref file that is client specific, a pointer to data types in the registry that you have access to, a pointer to small state management place where app can hold state over sessions.
* TBL: it is like getting the profile/pref file, for that agent all those TI files or registries exist specifically for that agent.
* WT: This specific agent doesn't specifywhat should happen in the background. Just that there's a place for discovery. Interop panl can build their spec by saying "we will use agent specific resource that hub returns to agent for returning the agent regiustration containing grants that uyser has granted to apps."" Those grants are built by ???
* TBL: In a MacOS machine, there's a thing which is hidden from the user which is application specific stuff. That sounds like the hub. Any agent should have a homepage/space on my pod.
* WT: Yes, that could be one way. Space as big as the session space in the browser which every client can get.
* TBL: Except on the solid pod.
* TBL: ???
* WT: Interop panel tried and dismissed for security reasons.
* TBL: You could get a 403 back from it. If anyone tries to phish for it...
* WT: Maybe. I'll go ahead and ask interop panel why that was dismissed, but it has been part of spec but removed.
* TBL: Concerned this hub is adding a lot of complexity.
* WT: I think it's not. You don;t need extra requests.
* TBL: We need a whole new protocol with its own Link headers. You should buy everyone in the world a beer anytime you propose a new protocol,. Make a new WG and buy everyone beer. The effort of every codebase supporting a new protocol. The cost of adding extra protocol to the system is huge.
* WT: This is a very good point, only it is a point that if you had it you should have made it known way earlier in the interop panel.
* TBL: When I looked at interop it was 100-something pages. I assume discovery starts with profile. Do I discover hub in the profile? But we need to find a hub by using a Link header.
* WT: This is why we should: the problem is we have technical information and social information together in a identity document which makes the profile doc having to be writable and non-writeable at the same time. If you use a Link header, it can link to the technical info and WebID-Profile can remain social.
* AH: We could have a paragraph saying "you can find a riple pointing to the hub" depending on whether profile has the service or not?
* WT: I don't want to propose how this should be incorporated to WebID profile. A triple is a good idea. Mainly I want to present this as a way for interop and WebID-Profile spec to come more together. If we define most of thew triples in WebID-Profile can be sen as an aklternative that can directly map onto interop if we use this system.
* TT: Interjection: thanks for explainign a aprt of the interop spec. Thank you for your time. Makes things easier to understand. I would argue that you should further split this at least in two, there is a part about discovery of resource hub, and that's the only one we have to take into consideration for WebID-Profile. But all the stuff about resource hub goes into authorization and that is something we are not getting into. This seems an alternative to UMA. I'm not an expert in authorixation. I don't want to block development of Solid in any direction, I se the point, I see why, I can see it working together in future because TI might have a scalability problem, but that's a big if. Very har dto digest. It feels an itnerop spec discussion. Let's try to get back to the poiint. If webID profile is not wedtable we cannot put triple in it, is that the problem?
* WT: This doesn't say anything about authz at all. It just says "these are things that are relevant". It's the only thing this spec aims to do. Not a good idea to reduce to first step of discovery.
* TT: Very complex and going into so many areas. Jut feedback. Take or leave.

### Model Preferences file on Profile (As people may want to keep profile info private )

* VB: Proposed by TBL
* TBL: When we have wider discussions about profile, some people have said there will be use cases where this stuff is not public at all and data needs to be private (for example, address book). There is an argument that anything that would go into profile (for example, lang). If you do not want langs to be public, they should go in the preference file. But basic preferences should be public. Maybe our first version of a preference file should start off by saying: if a person does not want it in the profile, they can put it in the preference file. Start like this. And whatever elese we might want that depends on context — who you share contacts with. A first version should say that it can have everything in it that a profile can have.
* WT: Why is there one pref file? Can there be more?
* TBL: It is very simple when you have one public and one private; you only need two `GET`s to find out what language a person speaks.
* WT: You can have one default with global preferences and multiple others that override.
* TBL: too complicated. We need to get this done now. We want people to be able to use libraries. When the community type indexes come there might be one for this community for example with bookmarks, likes, and so on. todo lists. I will have mine and then the community shared ones. Automatically, I can save stuff in my todo from the community todo. This is very powerful and we might have a system that will start to demonstrate this for people to use it. We can make them complicated later. We should focus to get it working now, in a simple version.
* VB: I agree that it is important to have this. Do you think that we want to include this in the profile spec, or do we want to have a separate document like with type indexes?
* TBL: Good question. I think it will be easier to put the preference file here; it does not have a lot of content. I feel putting the prefe stuff in the profile sounds good.
