# W3C Solid Community Group: WebID Profile

* Date: 2023-02-28T16:00:00Z
* Call: <https://meet.jit.si/solid-profile>
* Chat: <https://gitter.im/solid/webid-profile>
* Repository: <https://github.com/solid/webid-profile>

## Present

* [Virginia Balseiro](https://virginiabalseiro.com/#me)
* Timea Turdean
* Tim Berners-Lee
* Eric Jahn
* [Ted Thibodeau](https://github.com/TallTed) (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com)
* Hadrian

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts

* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.

### Participation and Code of Conduct

* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.

### Scribes

* Virginia

---

## Introductions

* EJ: Second time sitting.
* Hadrian: I'm ??? at Inrupt now. Open source guy. Looking forward to getting more involved in the community. Happy to answer questions.

## Topics

### Shapes PR

URL: <https://github.com/solid/webid-profile/pull/84>

* VB: Pending changes - reverting back to Collection for languages. After which we can merge unless there's any feedback that should be incorporated.

### Chat shape

* VB: In the agenda for discussion at tomorrow's CG meeting: <https://github.com/solid/specification/pull/503>
* TBL: Shapes and spec need to be together. Repo for specs and shape. We should have documentation and shape and code.
* TT: Agree. Only a shape, no one would be able to follow. And explain the shape.
* TBL: Added some work I've done on the Matrix chat.
* TT: I'd like to go into this topic during SolidOS meeting. For those who don't know Wednesdays half an hour later than this meeting, we have SolidOS meetings. Everyone is welcome. We discuss different Solid topics, not necessarily only around SolidOS code: <https://solidos.solidcommunity.net/Team/2021/schedule/solidos-schedule.html>

### Talk about communities in Type Indexes

URL: <https://github.com/solid/type-indexes>

* TT: There are PRs open that finalize the TI specification content-wise, except the part about Communities. So, while we think about approach to writing communities into the spec, I have some questions. People might have these questions and not know how to handle Communities. We have very good TI specification, built on top of previously developed. We have one implementation of Communities in solidOS with TI, and open questions as to how to be used, what it means, etc. Unpopular opinion, I'm not sure we should add communities to this version. I'd prefer to have more implementations, and more people working with them, implementing, filling in gaps. Opinions?
* TBL: If people are going to implement them, how would they go about it? Chicken-egg. We should have them in TI. We may have another spec ??? TI explaining how communities work would be necessary before people can implement. Maybe we can have a communities primer showing what solidOS does.
* TT: I understand there's a concern about how to get it out there and known, t have people potentiatlly implement anbd have experience with Communities so we can have a disucssion. I realize I have a blind spot regarding this topic, so I think it's too soon to decide now. My proposal is: how about collecting all this information, writing it out potentially in a blog, with use cases, mockups, etc. maybe reference implementations, collect all the information, and we could use that to disseminate in the community, nudging people to have demos on top of this as a prerequisite,in parallel to revisting whether we should include in current version or next. I'd like to have a separate task to gather this knowledge. Opinions?
* TBL: I don't want us to be in a state of waiting... I'd like to put it in a different spec to move forward. We can create a different spec in the same place... so we have an early draft. But spec should be on the same level. We should have a spec to point it even if it's a very small one.
* TT: I don't feel at ease to make that decision know without more info. Even I put it in the spec, I need more information - fill in gaps in knowledge. Maybe we can discuss in depth in next SolidOS meeting, and I will make an effort to collect that information. At this point, decision postponed because of lack of info on my end. Unless someone else can contribute...
* TT: 3 PRs open in TI. Feedback is welcome.
