# W3C Solid Community Group: WebID Profile

* Date: 2023-02-21T16:00:00Z
* Call: <https://meet.jit.si/solid-profile>
* Chat: <https://gitter.im/solid/webid-profile>
* Repository: <https://github.com/solid/webid-profile>

## Present

* [Virginia Balseiro](https://virginiabalseiro.com/#me)
* [Ted Thibodeau](https://github.com/TallTed/) (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com)
* TimBL

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts

* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.

### Participation and Code of Conduct

* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.

### Scribes

* Virginia

---

## Topics

### Introduction rewrite

URL: <https://github.com/solid/webid-profile/pull/87>

* VB: Feedback welcome. Sarven already left some coments which I will address later today.
* TBL: Can I see a diff?
* VB: Yes, there is a service I can use to add a link to diff, but I cannot get it to work. I'll ask Sarven to help me out.

### Shapes PR

URL: <https://github.com/solid/webid-profile/pull/84>

* VB: Does it need to be more exhaustive?
* TBL: Did we put in communities?
* VB: No.
* TBL: Sarven suggested either text or language rather than a collection. W3C has an RDF repository and there's a URL for languages.
* VB: I think SC meant this (skill level on languages) could be achieved in another way.
* TBL: Whether we have them in order or not is separate question.
* TT: [W3 Wiki: Languages as RDF resources](https://www.w3.org/wiki/Languages_as_RDF_Resources), and [IANA Language Tags](https://www.iana.org/assignments/language-tags/language-tags.xhtml#language-tags-1) & [Language Subtag Registry](https://www.iana.org/assignments/language-subtag-registry/language-subtag-registry)
  * Also see [RFC5646: Tags for Identifying Languages](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc5646.html)
* VB: Could we allow both?
* TBL: It is valuable to have the language be machine-readable not just a string. This affects all of the UX. If the list of languages is in order ???
* VB: I'll look into the language bit for the shape.
* TBL: We can make a separate version with communities in there.
* VB: Then I'll sort out the language bit and we can merge. Which will help me finish the data model section.

### Chat shape

* TBL: Heads-up, the chat shape needs to be extended to allow replies and threads. This comes out of the *Matrix → Solid* work in [`gitter-solid`](https://github.com/solid-contrib/gitter-solid)
* TBL: I got the ??? of gitter into my pod and got it working. Documentation of the API I'm using is non-existent. Two things it needs to have: replies and threads. They're two different things. A lot of stuff has been converted. There's membership in threads and replies. We need to upgrade the chat shapes (what we gave Oviedo students).
* VB: Is there a URL to that shape?
* TBL: No. I lost it. It might be documented in solid-ui or chat-pane.
* VB: So we don't have a shape?
* TBL: We don't. There are some chat apps.
* VB: Do we need to crate one?
* TBL: If we can't find one, we should.
* VB: There's this: <https://shaperepo.com/shapes?id=https%3A%2F%2Fshaperepo.com%2Fschemas%2Fchat> and <https://shaperepo.com/shapes?id=https%3A%2F%2Fshaperepo.com%2Fschemas%2FlongChat>
* VB: Should this work be carried out by chat-app group?
* TBL: If there's people in that group..
* VB: My question is where to do this work.
* TBL: We need to have a chat repo with shapes in it. Related to chat-pane documentation.
* VB: How does this relate to WebID profile? Becasue alternative would be to have a shapes repo (no pun intended) where we can keep shapes.
* TBL: The way they connect is when you go to TypeIndex you might find this shape.
* VB: TI has its own separate repo.
* TBL: Maybe long chat should have its own repo... these are all under solid/?
* VB: Yes.
* TBL: What do you tihnk?
* TT: <https://github.com/solid/type-indexes>
* VB: We either have everything under webid (shapes dir) or we create a new repo.
* TBL: The other problem is... if we make a new repo for each one, for something as different as chat it is reasonable because it's a new application..
* VB: Maybe gather common use cases for shapes and put them in a shapes repo.
* TBL: Maybe "core" shapes.
* VB: For the chat alone, it could live in the chat app repo.
* TBL: It is for one specific use cases, but it's the entire world of Matrix. Have you watched Noel's FOSDEM talk?
* VB: Not yet, saw the slides.
* TBL: There's a talk at FOSDEM about Matrix, it's interesting for the Solid community. They have lots of users and want to make the next version faster and move the storage to be descentralized.
* VB: So would it make sense to have a central shapes repo with "core" shapes?
* TBL: Yes.
* TBL: Do we have an ontology for JSON? So if we get JSON and have no info about it we could convert it.
* VB: No idea.
* TBL: I'll ask around.
* VB: Do we want to discuss the shapes repo or go ahead and make it?
* TBL: Just make it.
* VB: Okay. I'll try if I have access or I'll ask around.

---

## templates

### Topic

URL:

* name: text

PROPOSAL: text

* name: +1,±0,-1

RESOLUTION: text

ACTION: text
