# W3C Solid Community Group: WebID Profile

- Date: 2023-06-20T16:00:00Z
- Call: <https://meet.jit.si/solid-profile>
- Chat: <https://gitter.im/solid/webid-profile>
- Repository: <https://github.com/solid/webid-profile>

## Present

- [Virginia Balseiro](https://virginiabalseiro.com/#me)
- Jeff Zucker
- Hadrian
- Timea
- TimBL

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts

- No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
- Join queue to talk.

### Participation and Code of Conduct

- [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
- Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
- If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.

### Scribes

- Virginia

---

## Introductions

- name

## Topics

### New meeting time

- VB: Timea has previously mentioned the current meeting time isn't ideal for her. Also, Ted mentioned on Matrix that the current time conflicts with Credentials CG weekly meeting, which might be an issue for some attendants.
- VB: I have made a doodle here with some times that would work for me (note I filled in next week only as an example). Please pick all the slots that would suit you: https://doodle.com/meeting/participate/id/b69WlXLa
- VB: I will leave the Doodle open until next week's meeting and we will decide on a new meeting time during the meeting.

### dWeb camp

- TBL: Going to dWeb camp with Jackson to talk about Solid. I will be AFK probably.
- VB: Are there going to be recordings?
- TBL: Not sure.
